Why Do We Share Data?

  In the 21st century it has become a trend to share data using the internet, whether it is personal, experimental work or educational data. Sharing data is now a daily, regular procedure. This is because human life has evolved due to improvement in digital technology. It is now easier to send messages, show pictures of yourself, and submit assignments. Data sharing has become fast, efficient and accessible with the invention of portable devices such as the smart phone, the tablet and the laptop. But even so, what are the reasons to share data?
	A person can use social media to upload pictures, videos, statuses and updates on his/her life. It is a means of staying social when you are distant from others and an excellent way of communication. It is a lot easier to know what is happening in the world around you without even stepping a foot outside. The knowledge of the events happening in your friend groups is accessible at the click of a button. Of course, there is a downside of it being too easy for people to access information because rumours can spread just as easily, and bullying is much easier via the internet.
	Workers can access material from home through company websites, e-mailing and cloud storage. Voice actors can record and upload their lines, journalists can share their news reports, company managers can communicate through video calls and accountants can produce and share their financial statements, using the internet, from home. Working on the internet is very productive because there is no longer a need to travel to locations to send messages or to submit work. It can all be done digitally. Most official and business forms can now be filled in instantly on the internet without the need of paying and sending them by post.
	Scientists and other people can share their knowledge by uploading their research data on the internet. This is extremely important as people around the globe can be aware of the new discoveries that are made. Cures for diseases and viruses can be shared with all scientists in all countries in a miniscule amount of time. Students can utilise the world wide web as a library for their own research. The phrase “Google is your friend” is common among people now because the search engine ‘Google’, or any search engine, can be used to look up information on a vast number of topics. The internet has existed for a long enough time for mankind to share a substantial amount of ideas, so that the internet can be used as a method of finding information.
	There are numerous motives for people to share data. It is like the reason for authors writing books, it is because sharing knowledge is a principle of life that humans have adopted. Sharing information is the reason for all human success in history. Now that the internet exists, this distribution of info happens much faster. This will very soon in turn result in astounding, human prosperity. 

